>> SHE WAS JUST ONE OF THESE
KIND OF PEOPLE THAT LITERALLY,
THE MINUTE SHE WALKED IN TO THE
ROOM, SHE FILLED THE RO UP.
YOU KNOW WHAT WAS WONDERFUL
ABOUT HER WAS THAT SHE WAS
REFRESHINGLY UNAWARE OF HOW
PRETTY SHE WAS.
SHE WAS A GORGEOUS, GORGEOUS
YOUNG WOMAN.
MY NAME IS JAMIE BARNETT.
I'M THE MOTHER OF ASHLEY BARNETT
SHE WANTED TO BE AN ACTRESS.
SHE DIDN'T WANT TO JUST MAKE A
LIVING BEING AN ACTRESS.
SHE WANTED TOE A VERY
SUCCESSFUL ACTRESS.
SHE WANTED TO BE ON THAT RED
CARPET ONE TIME.
>> THAT GIRL HAD TALENT, AND SHE
HAD THE LOOKS.
SHE HAD THE PERSONALITY.
MY NAME IS ALLEY TWEAST, AND I'M
ASHLEY'S BEST FRIEND.
SHE HAD THE PROFESSIONALISM.
SHE D ALL OF IT.
SHE WAS A GOOD LITTLE PACKAGE.
>> PROBABLY ONE OF THE REASONS
ANYONE LIKES TO GO ON A CRUISE
IS BECAUSE THERE'S NOTHINGHAT
ENTERS OUR MIN THAT COULD HARM
US.
>> THE STORY IS ABOUT THE
ALL-AMERICAN GIRL, 24 YEARS OLD,
BEAUTIFUL, SMART, WHO GOES ON A
PLEASURE CRUISE TO CELEBRATE HER
BIRTHDAY...
>> THERE'S OUR BOAT RIGHT THERE.
>> SHE LOVED TO LAY OUTND SWIM
AND SHE WOULD BE WITH HIM.
>> I TOLD HER, "LET'S GET AWAY,"
YOU KNOW.
"IT WILL BE NICE," YOU KNOW, AND
"WE'LL HAVE A GOOD TIME."
>> SHE'S GOES ON A CRUISE, AND
24 HOURS AFTER GETTING ON THIS
BOAT, SHE'S GONE.
>> IT WAS A CRUEL, CRUEL JOKE.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN MY DAUGHTER
PASSED AWAY?
>> WE STILL DON'T HAVE CLEAR
ANSWERS OF HOW ASHLEY DIED.
>> MY NAME IS JOHN DEBNEY.
I'M A FILM COMPOSER HERE IN
HOLLYWOOD, CALIFORNIA.
I SIT HERE TOD AS PART OF
ASHLEY'S ARMY.
>> WE ARE HERE TODAY TO DEMAND
ANSWERS INTO THE MYSTERIOUS
DEATH OF ASHLEY BARNETT.
ON OCTOBER 15, 20045 ASHLEY'S
BOYFRIEND RAN INTO THE HALLWAY
SCREAMING FOR HELP.
>> AND I YELLED DOWN THE HALL,
"HELP, HELP, MY GIRLFRIEND IS
NOT BREATHING."
>> FIRING THING THAT CAME OUT OF
MY MOUTH IS, "WHAT DID HE DO TO
HER?"
HONESTLY.
LIKE, AN ACCIDENT, LIKE -- I
DON'T KNOW.
>> IT WAS THE WORST DAY OF MY
LIFE.
IT WAS THE WORST DAY OF MY LIFE.
>> DOES HE KNOW WHAT HAPPENED?
DOES HE NOT KNOW WHAT HAPPENED?
WAS HE INVOLVED IN WHAT
HAPPENED?
>> Reporter: YOU BELIEVE HE KNOW
WHAT HAPPENED.
>> I BELIEVE HE KNOWS.
WE ALL THINK THAT YOU'RE SO SAFE
ON A CRUISESHIP.
BUT WE'RE NOT.
Captioning sponsored by CBS
>> THE MYSTERY CONTINUES IN 90
SECONDS.
(announcer)
THE LATEST LOOK IN FIBER
IS SHOWING UP EVERYWHERE.
ALL-NATURAL BENEFIBER.
THE FIRST FIBER
SUPPLEMENT
THAT'S TASTELESS
AND DISSOLVES COMPLETELY
SO YOU CAN PUT IT IN
WHATEVER FOODS YOU
FANCY... EVEN WATER.
BENEFIBER, THE LATEST
LOOK IN FIBER.
Announcer:
IF HAS ALWAYS BEEN
A PART OF
YOUR WORKING LIFE.
BUT AS YOU PLAN FOR RETIREMENT,
YOU FACE A NEW SET OF "IFS."
IF I CAN'T COUNT
ON A BIG PENSION,
IF I WANT TO STAY
IN THE HOUSE
WHERE MY KIDS GREW UP,
IF MY MONEY HAS
TO LAST AND LAST.
METLIFE HAS BEEN PROTECTING
RETIREMENTS FOR OVER 100 YEARS
WE CAN EASE YOUR TRANSITION
FROM WORK TO RETIREMENT
BY HELPING YOU CREATE
YOUR PERSONAL SAFETY NET
SO YOU'RE TAKEN CARE OF.
CALL ON OUR EXPERTISE TO GET
GUARANTEES FOR THE "IF" IN LIFE.
>> ON OCTOBER 14, 2005, ASHLEY
SAILED OUT OF LOS ANGELES TO
CELEBRATE HER UPCOMING 25th
BIRTHDAY, AND ONE DAY INTO THAT
CRUISE, SHE WAS DEAD.
WHAT HAPPENED?
I'M HER MOTHER.
I NEED TO KNOW.
I CAN'T GO THROUGH THE REST OF
MY LIFE NOT KNOWING.
I HAVE TO KNOW.
>> Reporter: JAMIE BARNETT HAS
MADE A PROMISE TO HERSELF AND TO
HER DAUGHTER:
>> WHEREVER THAT TRUTH IS, WE'RE
GOING TO FIND IT.
>> Reporter: ONE WAY OR ANOTHER
YOU'RE GOING TO FIND OUT HOW AND
WHY YOUR DAUGHTER DIED.
>> YES, I AM.
>> Reporter: JAMIE KNOWS THIS
MUCH IS TRUE -- HER DAUGHTER
SAILED OFF WITH HER BOYFRIEND,
JEFF.
AFTER HE LEFT THE ROOM, WE JUST
DON'T KNOW WHAT HAPPENED IN THAT
CABIN.
THAT'S THE MYSTERY.
>> THAT'S IT RIGHT THERE.
>> Reporter: THIS WAS NOT THE
ENDING THAT ANYONE WOULD HAVE
PREDICTED FOR 24-YEAR-OLD ASHLEY
BARNETT WHO HAD EVERYTHING TO
LIVE FOR.
ASHLEY HAD THEOVE AND SUPPORT
OF A LARGE EXTENDED FAMILY.
THOUGH HER PARENTS WERE DIVORCED
THERE WAS A DEVOTED FATHER AND
THREE ADORING BROTHERS.
>> THEY WERE ALL SO CLOSE, A
WONDERFUL THING ABOUT ALL OF MY
CHILDREN.
THOSE BOYS ADORED THEIR SISTER,
AND SHE THEM.
>> HI, MY NAME IS ASHLEY.
I'14 AND I LOVE TO DANCE.
>> Reporter: ASHLEY SEEMED
DESTINED FOR A LIFE IN FRONT OF
THE CAMERA RIGHT FROM THE START.
>> SHE LOVED PERFORMING, ALWAYS
LOVED PERFORMING.
>> Reporter: SHE GREW UP IN
BURBANK, CALIFORNIA, IN THE
SHADOW OF THE HOLLYWOOD STUDIOS.
>> YEAH, WE CAN PULL THAT.
>> Reporter: JAMIE WORKS AT THE
CBS TELEVISION STUDIOS BEHIND
THE SCENES, RUNNING THE GRIP
DEPARTMENT.
>> ASHLEY'S OFFICE WAS RIGHT
HERE.
>> Reporter: WHEN SHE WAS 20
YEARS OLD, ASHLEY GOT A JOB IN
THE MAIL ROOM ON THE SAME LOT
WHERE HER MOM WORKS.
ASHLEY SOON LANDED A PRODUCTION
ASSISTANT JOB ON THE HIT SHOW
"WILL & GRACE."
IT WAS JUST THE KIND OF STEPPING
STONE THAT A YOUNG, ASPIRING
ACTRESS NEEDED.
ASHLEY SOON CAUGHT THE EYE OF
FILM COMPOSER JOHN DEBNEY.
>> SHE HAD STAR WRITTEN ALL OVER
HER.
NOT ONLY WAS SHE BEAUTIFUL, BUT
SHE HAD SUCH A HEART AND A SOUL.
>> Reporter: HE WROTE THE SCORES
TO BOX OFFICE HITS LIKE
"PRINCESS DIARIES," AND "BRUCE
ALMIGHTY."
DEBNEY OFFERED ASHLEY A POSITION
AS HIS MUSIC COORDINATOR JARKS
THERE ARE A LOT OF FINECTORS
AND ACTRESSES IN THIS TOWN, BUT
ASHLEY HAD AN EXTRA SOMETHING.
I THINK IT'S A SPARK OF FAIRY
DUST.
IT'S THIS THING THAT VERY FEW
PEOPLE HAVE.
>> WE'D LIKE TO PLAY NOW
SOMETHING CALLED "FROM SOMEWHERE
IN TIME."
AND I LIKE TO THINK IT
REPRESENTS ASHLEY SOMEWHERE IN
TIME.
>> Reporter: DEBNEY NEVER
IMAGINED HE WOULD LEAD AN
ORCHESTRA AT ASHLEY'S FUNERAL.
40 INSTRUMENTS PLAYING MUSIC
CHOSEN ESPECIALLY FOR HER.
>> I GUESS I SHOULD START BY
JUST -- JUST DESCRIBING HER, AND
WHEN SHE WALKED IN A ROOM, HOW
SHE LIT IT UP.
SHE WAS JUST SOO OH, SO AMAZING.
>> Reporter: MANY OF ASHLEY'S
CLOSEST FRIENDS STOOD UP AND
PAID TRIBUTE, BUT ONE PERSON AT
THE MEMORIAL WAS NOT WELCOME TO
SPEAK -- HER BOYFRIEND, GEOFF
GINSBURG.
>> I FELT, YOU KNOW, LIKE I
SHOULD HAVE BEEN A PART OF IT.
THAT, YOU KNOW, I COULD HAVE --
I COULD HAVE SHARED A LOT OF
STORIES.
I WAS A BIG PART OF ASHLEY'S
LIFE.
ASHLEY DID LOVE ME.
I DID LOVE ASHLEY.
>> Reporter: GEOFF AND ASHLEY
HAD BEEN FRIENDS SINCE THE NINTH
GRADE BUT BECAME A COUPLE IN
THEIRARLY 20s.
BY THEN, GEOFF WAS AN
ELECTRICIAN.
WHAT DID YOU LIKE ABOUT HER SO
MUCH?
>> HER PERSONALITY, HER CAREFREE
LOOK AT THE WORLD.
HER EYES, HER HAIR, HER LAUGH.
IT WAS JUST PERFECT TO ME.
Reporter: BUT THERE WAS A
PROBLEM THAT WAS BIGGER THAN
BOTH OF THEM -- GEOFF HAD
STRUGGLED WITH DRUG ADDICTION.
WHAT WERE YOU USING?
>> VICODIN.
>> Reporter: DID SHE KNOW THAT
HE WAS A DRU USER WHEN SHE
STARTED DATING HIM?
>> WHE SHE STARTED DATING HIM,
SHE KNEW HE HAD BEEN, THAT HE
WAS CLEAN NOW.
WAS HER UNDERSTANDING.
>> Reporter: EVERYONE WHO KNEW
ASHLEY KNEW HOW SHE FELT ABOUT
DRUGS.
THOSE WHO KNEW HER SAID THAT SHE
WAS NOT INTO DRUGS.
>> NO.
>> Reporter: DIDN'T APPROVE OF
DRUGS.
>> NO.
>> Reporter: WHAT WAS SHE DOING
WITH YOU?
>> I THINK SHE LOOKED -- SHE
LOOKED PAST THAT.
SHE LOOKED AT WHAT -- WHEN I'M
IN MY ADDICTION, THAT'S NOT ME.
THAT'S NOT GEOFF.
>> ASHLEY'S THE TYPE OF GIRL
WHERE IF SOMEBODY IS HURTING,
SHE WILL COMFORT YOU AND TRY TO
HELP YOU AND FIX YOU.
>> Reporter: ASHLEY'S BEST
FRIEND, ALLIE TWEAST.
DID SHE SALE -- TELL YOU SHE
THOUGHT SHE WOULD BE ABE TO
CHANGE HIM.
>> SHE FELT THAT, THAT HER LOVE
COULD SOMEHOW WAKE HIM UP, BUT
IT DIDN'T HAPPEN LIKE THAT.
>> Reporter: ON OCTOBER 14, 2005
ASHLEY AND GEOFF BOARDED THE
CARNIVAL CRUISE SHIP "PARADISE"
HERE IN LONG BEACH, CALIFORNIA.
THERE ARE CONFLICTING VERSIONS
OF WHAT WENT WRONG THAT WEEKEND,
BUT WE CODO HAVE CLUES, AND SOME
OF THE MOST COMPELLING CLUES
WERE LEFT BY ASHLEY HERSELF.
>> THERE'S OUR BOAT RIGHT THERE.
>> Reporter: THIS IS SOME OF
ASHLEY'S HOME VIDEO OF THAT
FATEFUL TRIP.
>> HI, ASHLEY!
>> HI, JO-JO.
>> Reporter: DOCUMENTING WHAT
WOULD TURN OUT TO BE THE LAST
HOURS OF HER LIFE.
>> THIS IS JUST THE BEGINNING.
>> Reporter: JOE FISCHERA SAY
FRIEND OF GEOFF AND ASHLEY'S.
HE WAS PART OF THE GROUP THAT
JOINED THE COUPLE, ALONG WITH
GEOFF'S BROTHER, KEITH.
>> IT ME IT WAS LIKE A BIG RAVE
AT SEA, PEOPLE DANCING AND JUST
EVERYBODY HAVING SO -- SUCH A
GOOD TIME, YOU KNOW.
YOU KNOW, DRINKING AND PARTYING.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS GOING TO BE A
COOL TIME.
>> I WON THE JACKPOT.
>> Reporter: WE KNOW FROM
ASHLEY'S VIDEOTAPE THA SHE AND
GEOFF WENT TO THE CASINO.
THAT NIGHT, THEY WENT TO HEAR
THE BANDS PLAY.
THEY SEEMED HAPPY.
>> WHAT I KNOW IS THEY WENT TO
THE CONCERT, AND THEN THEY WENT
BACK TO THE ROOM.
>> Reporter: ACCORDING TO GEOFF,
BACK IN THE CABIN, THERE WAS A
DISAGREEMENT.
HE WANTED TO RETURN TO THE
CASINO, BUT IT WAS ABOUT 2:30,
AND ASHLEY WANTED TO GO TO BED.
>> YOU KNOW, IT WAS KIND OF LATE
BUT STILL, I KIND OF JUST -- I
WAS REALLY EXCITED ABOUT THE
CRUISE, AND... I JUST WANTED TO
STAY UP.
>> Reporter: SO WHEN YOU LEFT
HER, WAS SHE UPSET?
>> SHE WAS A LITTLE UPSET, YEAH.
>> Reporter: ABOUT 4:00 A.M.,
ACCORDING TO GEOFF, HE RETURNED
TO THE CABIN.
AND WHEN YOU GOT THERE, HOW WAS
ASHLEY?
>> SHE WAS ASLEEP.
>> Reporter: DID YOU TRY TO WAKE
HER UP?
>> NO, I JUST GOT IN NEXT TO HER
AND HELD HER AND WENT TO SLEEP.
>> Reporter: SATURDAY, MIDDAY,
GEOFF SAID ASHLEY WAS STILL
SLEEPING, SO HE LEFT HER IN THE
CABIN, A WENT UPSTAIRS TO JOIN
THE GROUP.
>> AND HE COMES BY AND HIS EXACT
WORDS WERE, "MY BABY DOLL IS
STILL SNORING.
LET'S LET HER SLEEP A LITTLE BIT
LONGER, AND WE'LL WAK HER UP IN
A LITTLE BIT."
>> Reporter: ABOUT 2:00 P.M.,
GEOFF SAYS HE RETURNED TO WAKE
ASHLEY.
>> I WENT UP TO HERK I WALKE UP
TO HER, AND I'M LIKE, "BABY,
LET'S GO."
YOU KNOW, "TIME TO GET UP."
I KIND OF TOUCHED HER ON THE
FACE, "BABY, BABY, WHAT'S GOING
ON?"
HERYES WERE SHUT, AND I WAS
TRYING TO OPEN HER EYES A LITTLE
BIT, AND SHE WASN'T RESPONDING
AND AND I JUST STARTED FREAKING
OUT.
>> Reporter: YOU KNEW
SOMETHING--
>> I KNEW SOMETHING WAS VERY
STRONG.
>> Reporter: 2:07 P.M. GEOFF
CALLS 911.
>> I SAID, "MY GIRLFRIEND IS NOT
BREATHING.
I DON'T THINK SHE'S BREATHING.
PLEASE COME HELP."
>> Reporter: WITHIN THREE
MINUTES A NURSE ARRIVES AND
ATTEMPTS CPR.
2:10,  EMERGENCY ANNOUNCEMENT
IS BROADCAST TO SUMMON THE
SHIP'S DOCTOR.
>> THE CHAOS AND THE ALARMS AND
911 AND THE MEDICS.
>> Reporter: AT 2:11, THE DOCTOR
ARRIVED.
ACCORDING TO HIS STATEMENT,
ASHLEY WAS UNRESPONSIVE, COLD,
WITH NO PULSE.
AT 2:45, SHE WAS PRONOUNCED
DEAD.
>> I WON'T EVER BE THE SAME.
NONE OF US WILL.
>> I JUST -- I COULDN'T BELIEVE
IT.
SHE WAS MY FAMILY.
>> Reporter: IN YOUR OPINION,
WHAT DO YOU THINK HAPPENED TO
HER?
>> I HAVE THOUGHT ABOUT IT A
THOUSAND TIMES, AND I JUST DON'T
KNOW.
>> HE HAS TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENED.
>> AND I SAID, "WHAT HAPPENED TO
HER?"
>> Reporter: ON SATURDAY,
OCTOBER 15, JAMIE GOT THAT
TERRIBLE PHONE CALL FROM THE
NURSE ON BOARD THE SHIP.
>> AND SHE SAID, "WELL, WE DON'T
KNOW.
THAT'S BEING INVESTIGATED RIGHT
NOW."
>> Reporter: DID GEOFF EVER
PHONE YOU?
>> NO, NOT THAT NIGHT.
I ASKED TO SPEAK TO HIM, AND SHE
TOLD ME I COULDN'T RIGHT NOW.
THAT HE WAS BEING QUESTIONED.
SHE LATER CALLED ME BACK AND
SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN CLEARED TO
TALK TO ME, BUT THAT HE HAD SO
FAR DECLINED TO DO SO.
>> Reporter: WHAT DID YOU MAKE
OF THAT?
>> I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO MAKE OF
THAT.
>> Reporter: AND THAT'S HOW THE
MYSTERY BEGAN.
WHAT DID YOU THINK HAD HAPPED?
>> I HAD NO IDEA.
I HAD NO IDEA.
>> Reporter: CARNIVAL BEGAN AN
INVESTIGATION, BUT BECAUSE THE
BOAT WAS DOCKED IN ENSENADA, THE
MEXICAN AUTHORITIES BOARDED THE
SHIP.
THEY NEEDED TO DETERMINE IF A
HOMICIDE HAD BEEN COMMITTED.
LATER THAT NIGHT, GEOFF AND THE
REST OF THE GROUP WERE ALL ON
BOARD WHEN THE "PARADISE" SET
SAIL AS SCHEDULED BACK TO
CALIFORNIA.
BUT ASHLEY BARNETT WAS LEFT
BEHIND IN A MEXICAN MORGUE,
ALONE.
>> SHE LEFT IN MEXICO, AND THE
BOAT SAILS ON, THE PARTY GOES
ON.
NOBODY STAYS WITH HER.
>> IF THAT HAD BEEN ME, WILD
HORSES COULDN'T HAVE KEPT  ON
THAT SHIP.
I WOULD HAVE BEEN WITH HER.
I DID NOT WANT TO STAY ON
THATOA
I NTED TO GET OFF TT BOAT.
I WANTED TO BE WITH ASH.
I DIDN'T WANT TO LET HER GO INTO
MEXICO.
>> Reporter: CARNIVAL SAYS GEOFF
HAD NO CHOICE AND CONFIRMS TO
"48 HOURS MYSTERY" THAT HE WAS
RIDER TO REON BOARD THEHIP
UNTIL U.S. AUTHORITIES COULD
QUESTION HIM.
ONE DAY AFTER ASHLEY'S DEATH, AS
THE SHIP WAS HEADING BACK HOME,
GEOFF FINALLY CALLED JAMIE.
WHY DID YOU WAIT SO LONG TO CALL
HER?
>> I...
( SIGHS )
I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT -- I DIDN'T
KNOW WHAT TO SAY.
I WAS JUST -- KIND OF JUST IN A
STATE OF SHOCK.
HOW DO YOU MAKE THAT CALL?
WHAT DO YOU SAY?
AND, YOU KNOW, MAYBE I DIDN'T DO
IT RIGHT, BUT I DID END UP
CALLING JAMIE, YOU KNOW, THE
FOLLOWING DAY.
>> Reporter: IN THAT
CONVERSATION, GEOFF REVEALED
WHAT WOULD BE THE FIRST
TROUBLING CLUE.
>> THE CONVERSATION WAS VERY
SHORT BECAUSE THE PEOPLE IN THE
ROOM WITH HIM TOOK THE PHONE
AWAY FROM HIM BECAUSE HE WAS SO
UPSET.
HE JUST SAID, "I DON'T KNOW WHAT
HAPPENED."
AND I SAID, "GEOFF, YOU HAVE TO
KNOW WHAT HAPPENED.
YOU WERE WITH HER."
AND SHE SAID, "MIE, I HAVE NO
IDEA.
SHE WENT TO SLEEP, AND THAT'S
ALL I KNOW.
THE ONLYHING I KNOW IS SOME OF
MY METHADONE AND SOME OF MY
VICODIN WAS MISSING."
AND I SAID, "GEOFF, WHAT DOES
THAT MEAN?
WHAT ARE YOU SAYING?
SHE WOULDN'T HAVE TAKEN IT."
AND HE SAID, "I KNOW!
KNOW!".
>> Reporter: SO S ASHLEY'S
SUDDEN DEATH CAUSED BY DRUGS,
THE DRUGS GEOFF SAYS WERE
MISSING?
JAMIE WAS ABOUT TO LEARN THAT
THE CARNIVAL CRUISE WAS NOT JUST
TO CELEBRATE HER DAUGHTER'S
BIRTHDAY.
GEOFF SAYS HE PLANNED TO USE
TIME ON BOARD TO DETOX.
HE HAD RELAPSED INTO HIS VICODIN
HABIT AND THAT'S WHY HE SAYS HE
HAD METHADONE WITH HIM.
LET ME ASK YOU THIS, AT THE TIME
YOU WERE ADDICTED TO VICODIN,
VIE TRYING TO GET OFF, USI
METH DIN, IS IT A GOOD IDEA TO
GO ON A THREE-DAY PARTY CRUISE?
>> NO, IT'S NOT.
>> Reporter: MOTH PEOPLE THINK
OF HEROIN WHEN HAY LEARN OF
METHADONE.
WERE YOU UNDER A DOCTOR'S CARE?
>> NO.
>> Reporter: WHERE DID YOU GET
THE METHADONE?
>> ALREADY ANSWERED THAT.
IT DOESN'T MATTER.
THE FACT IS I BRA THE MHADONE
ON WITH ME.
>> Reporter: WHEN THE "PARADISE"
CAME BACK TO LONG BEACH THE
F.B.I. STEPPED IN AND BEGAN ITS
OWN INVESTIGATION.
>> YOU THINK, "OH, THANK GOD.
IT'S GOING TO GET TAKEN CARE OF.
THE F.B.I. IS INVOLVED.
HELP IS ON THE WAY."
>> Reporter: JAMIE SAYS THE
F.B.I. TOLD HER TO BE WAITING AT
THE HARBOR WHEN THE SHIP CAME
IN.
SHE BELIEVED SHE WOULD FIND OUT
WHAT HAPPENED TO HER DAUGHTER.
>> WE STOOD UP IN THE RAIN AND
WAITED, AND WAITED, AND FINALLY
A WOMAN FROM CARNIVAL CAME AND
SPOKE TO MY FRIENDS THAT HAD
BROUGHT ME THERE AND SAID, SHE
WAS TERRIBLY SORRY TO HEAR ABOUT
OUR LOSS, AND SHE WOULD GO FIND
SOMEONE TO COME HELP US.
NO ONE EVER CAME.
AND IT CONTINUED TO RAIN FOR
FOUR HOURS, AND FINALLY, THE
F.B.I. CAME OUT AND TOOK ME
INSIDE TO INTERVIEW ME.
>> Reporter: MORE QUESTIONS, NO
ANSWERS.
THE F.B.I. REVEALED LITTLE TO
JAMIE ABOUT WHAT IT KNEW.
GEOFF GINSBURG WAS NOT CHARGED
WITH ANY CRIME, AND THE MYSTERY
WAS ABOUT TO DEEPEN.
ASHLEY'S BODY WAS RETURNED TO
THE UNITED STATES.
>> SHE APPEARED TO BE EXTERNALLY
VERY HEALTHY.
>> Reporter: FIVE DAYS AFTER HER
DEATH, HER FAMILY HIRED
DR. DAVID POSEY TO PERFORM AN
AUTOPSY.
DR. POSEY FOUND ASHLEY'S ORGANS
WERE IN PRISTINE CONDITION.
THERE WAS EVIDENCE THAT SHE HAD
CONSUMED SOME ALCOHOL.
THERE WERE NO SIGNS OF TRAUMA.
>> NO EXTERNAL SIGNS OF ANY
INJURY AT ALL.
>> Reporter: DR. POSEY'S WAS THE
SECOND EXAMINATION OF THE BODY.
THE FIRST ONE WAS IN MEXICO.
BOTH AUTOPSIES HAD REACHED THE
SAME CONCLUSION.
>> IT WAS THE TOXIC EFFECTS OF
METHADONE.
THAT HAD KILLED HER.
AND I WAS JUST... STUNNED.
STUNNED.
YOU KNOW, HE SAID HE HAD
METHADONE ON THE SHIP.
HOW IN THE WORLD WOULD IT HAVE
GOTTEN IN HER?
>> Reporter: METH -- METHADONE
IS A TRICKY DRUG.
LESS THA A TEASPOON CAN BE
FATAL.
YOU'RE SAYING THIS IS AN
EXTREMELY DANGEROUS DRUG TO
BEGIN WITH, BUT EVEN MORE SO, IF
YOUR BODY HAS NEVERHAD ANY
METHADONE IN IT?
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
IT'S A VERY DANGEROUS DRUG TO BE
USING, EVEN IN THE BEST OF
HANDS.
>> Reporter: JAMIE AND ASHLEY'S
FRIEND ALLIE, ARE CONVINCED OF
ONE THING -- ASHLEY WOULD NOT
HAVE TRIED METHADONE ON HER OWN.
WOULDN'T HAVE EXPERIMENTED WITH
IT?
>> NO.
>> Reporter: IF HE OFFERED TO,
FOR WHATEVER REASON, SHARED IT
WITH HER?
>> NO, SHE'S NOT LIKE THAT.
>> Reporter: AND TO PROVE IT,
THE FAMILY ORDERED A TEST OF
ASHLEY'S HAIR, ONE STRAND COULD
DETEINE IF SHE HAD BEEN A
HABITUAL DRUG USER.
>> NO OTHER DRUGS WERE FOUND,
HER HAIR WAS NEGATIVE.
>> Reporter: MORE EVIDENCE THAT
SHE WAS CLEAN BEFORE THIS
INCIDENT.
>> THAT'S A LOT MORE EVIDENCE
AND REALLY HELPS TIE TOGETHER
THE FINDINGS FROM THE AUTOPSY.
>> Reporter: BUT WHO COULD TIE
THIS CASE TOGETHER?
JAMIE DEMANDED THAT CARNIVAL
PROVIDE HER WITH ALL THE
EVIDENCE THEY HAD GATHERED.
>> HOW DID METHADONE GET INTO
ASHLEY'S BODY?
>> Reporter: AND SHE TURNED TO
HIGH-POWERED ATTORNEY, GLORIA
ALLRED, FOR HELP.
>> WE WANT THE SHIP TO TELL US
EVERYTHING THEY KNOW.
>> Reporter: THEIR CAMIGN
YIELDED NUMEROUS DOUBTS FROM
CARNIVAL'S INTERNAL
INVESTIGATION AND LANDED THEM A
PERSONAL MEETING WITH COMPANY
OFFICIALS IN MIAMI.
>> ALL OF THESE QUESTIONS THAT
YOU'RE GOING TO ASK THEM, YOU
HAVE A RIGHT TO ASK THEM, AND
YOU HAVE A RIGHT TO GET
ANSWERED.
>> BUT IT SHOULDN'T TAKE THIS TO
GET THOSE ANSWERS.
>> I KNOW.
>> Reporter: AND THE BIGGEST
QUESTION STILL LINGERD: IF SHE
DIDN'T TAKE THE METHADONE
HERSELF, HOW DID THAT METHADONE
GET INTO HER BODY?
>> THAT'S THE $64,000 QUESTION.
>> Reporter: ON OUR NEXT "48
HOURS MYSTERY":
>> WHAT IS THIS GOING TO DO?
THE DEED'S ALREADY DONE.
>> Reporter: THE THINGS THAT CAN
HAPPEN BETWEEN FRIENDS.
>> ANTHONY WAS A FRIEND OF MINE.
JASON WAS MY CLOSE FRIEND AS
WELL.
>> Reporter: TIGHT, LIKE FAMILY.
>> AT THE TIME WE THOUGHT WE
WERE UNTOUCHABLE.
>> ANTHONY LIVED WITH HIS AUNT.
>> OH, GOD, SHE DID EVERYTHING
FOR ANTHONY.
>>.
>> Reporter: UNTIL THE DAY SHE
DIED, AN ACCIDENT ACCORDING TO
PLI POLICE.
>> THEY TOOK IT AS AN OLD WOMAN
WHO FELL DOWN THE STAIRS.
>> Reporter: THEY WERE WRONG.
>> IT WAS TEN MONTHS AFTER THE
DEATH THAT JASON TOLD ME A VERY
DISTURBING SECRET.
>> Reporter: A KFLD CONVERSATION
>> HE SAID SHE DIDN'T REALLY DIE
ON HER OWN.
I THOUGHT, HOW CAN THIS HAPPEN?
THEY MADE IT LOOK LIKE AN
ACCIDENT.
>> Reporter: NOW, WILL HE GO TO
THE POLICE?
>> I SHOULDN'T HAVE TOLD YOU.
BUT I THOUGHT I COULD TRUST YOU.
>> WHAT WOULD YOU DO?
>7m;
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,
WE'LL BE LANDING SHORTLY.
FOR THOSE OF YOU
CONNECTING TO ATLANTA,
YOU'LL BE AT GATE A9.
BUENOS AIRES, A17.
BACK FROM A LONG NIGHT OUT
WITH THE ENTIRE TOKYO OFFICE...
CAPPED OFF BY A KARAOKE
RENDITION OF "I AM WOMAN"...
THAT CERTAINLY NO ONE
WILL FORGET...
AND STILL PULLING OFF
THAT SEVEN FIGURE DEAL...
THE NEXT MORNING WITHOUT
A HITCH... YOU'RE AT GATE C21.
DENVER, C10.
WE KNOW WHY YOU FLY.
WE'RE AMERICAN AIRLINES.
AMERICAN NOW FLIES
TO TOKYO,
SHANGHAI AND DELHI.
EVERY DAY.
>> I WANT TO FIND OUT WHAT
HAPPENED TO MY DAUGHTER.
SOMEONE OR SOME PEOPLE NEED TO
BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE FOR IT.
>> Reporter: THERE WERE SO MANY
PLACES JAMIE BARNETT EXPECTED TO
GO IN THE NAME OF THE DAUGHTER
SHE LOVED.
BUT SHE NEVER EXPECTED THAT ONE
OF THEM WOULD BE THE F.B.I..
>> I'M JUST AN ORDINARY MOM.
SO I DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW THE
F.B.I. WORKS.
>> Repter: SHE WANTED DETAILS
OF THE FEDERAL INVESTIGATION
INTO THE DEATH OF HER DAUGHTER.
ALL SHE WANTED TO KNOW WAS WHAT
HAPPENED?
>> AND WHEN I ASKED THEM A REAL
SIMPLE -- I THINK IT'S A SIMPLE
QUESTION, AND THEY CAN LOOK AT
ME AND SAY, "I CAN'T ANSWER THAT
AND I GO, "WHY?
WHY NOT?"
"WELL, BECAUSE THAT'S, YOU KNOW,
PART OF AN ONGOING, OPEN
INVESTIGATION.
SO I CAN'T TALK ABOUT IT."
IT'S SO FRUSTRATING.
THAT'S FRUSTRATING TO ME.
>> Reporter: THE F.B.I. CONFIRMS
TO "48 HOURS" THAT THE
INVESTIGATION IS STILL OPEN, BUT
THE TRUTH IN THIS CASE IS
ESPECIALLY ELUSIVE.
THAT'S BECAUSE THE ONLY VERSION
OF EVENTS OF WHAT HAPPENED
BEHIND THE DOORS OF GEOFF AND
ASHLEY'S CABIN COMES FROM GEOFF.
FOR THE RECORD -- UNDERSTAND I
HAVE TO ASK YOU THIS QUESTION --
DID YOU GIVE ASHLEY THAT
METHADONE?
>> NO WAY, NEVER.
I WOULD NEVER, EVER HAVE EVER
DONE THAT.
>> Reporter: IF GEOFF DIDN'T
GVE HER THE DRUG, DID SOMEONE
ELSE?
>> I THINK SOMEBODY MAY HAVE
SLIPPED HER SOMETHING AND JUST
TRYING TO LOOSEN HER UP.
I -- I THINK MAYBE THAT SHE
MIGHT HAVE BEEN TRIKD INT
TAKING SOMETHING SHE DIDN'T
KNOW.
I JUST -- I KNOW SOMETHING'S
WRONG.
IN MY HEART.
>> Reorter: WE HAVE NO WAY OF
VERIFYING IF GFF WENT IN AND
OUT OF THE CABINS AT THE TIMES
HE SAID HE DID OR IF ANYONE ELSE
MIGHT HAVE ENTERED.
THAT'S BECAUSE ON THIS CRUISE ON
THIS PARTICULAR WEEKEND, THE KEY
LOCK WHICH RECORDS ALL ENTRIES
WILL TO THE DOOR OF CABIN R-149,
MALFUNCTIONED.
WE DO KNOW THIS ABOUT THAT
FATEFUL DAY: AS CPR WAS BEING
PERFORMED ON HISYING
GIRLFRIEND, GEOFF MENTIONS THOSE
MISSING DRUGS TO THE DOCTOR AND
NURSE.
>> I HAD TOLD THEM, YOU KNOW,
WHILE THEY WERE WORKING, I SAID,
"IAD METHADONE.
I HAD VICODIN.
IF SHE HAD TAKEN THAT, GIVE HER
SOMETHING FOR THAT.
DO WHATEVER YOU WANT."
>> Reporter: IS IT POSSIBLE THAT
ASHLEY BARNETT, THE WOMAN WITH
THE REPUTATION FOR BEING SO
ANTI-DRUG, TOOK THE METHADONE
HERSELF?
THE SHIP'S INCIDENT REPORT FROM
THAT DAY OFFERS YET ANOTHER
CLUE.
IN A STATEMENT ATTRIBUTED TO
GEOFF, ASHLEY HAD AN ABORTION
THREE WEEKS BEFORE THE CRUISE,
AND SHE WAS "QUITE DEPRESSED AT
TIMES."
>> SHE WAS -- SHE WAS DEPRESSED.
SHE WAS DOWN.
>> SHE WAS UPSET OVER...
HAVING TO MAKE THAT KIND OF
DECISION.
AND I -- I WON'T DENY THAT.
SHE DID NOT TAKE IT LIGHTLY.
BUT IT WAS THE APPROPRIATE
AMOUNT OF SADNESS.
>> I WAS WITH HER A DAY OR SO
BEFORE SHE WENT ON THE CRUISE.
SHE WAS NOT DEPRESSED.
SHE WAS TALKING AUT GETTING
BACK NEXT WEEK AND WHAT HER
APPOINTMENT WAS WITH ANOTHER
AGENT THAT SHE WAS GOING TO
HOPEFULLY SIGN WITH.
>> Reporter: GEOFF ALSO TOLD
CARNIVAL ABOUT AN INCIDENT
MONTHS EARLIER WHEN "ASHLEY HAD
ATTEMPTED TO CONSUME A LARGE
QUANTITY OF MEDICATION, ASPIRIN,
SIX MONTHS AGO."
>> SHE HAD BROUGHT UP SOMETHING
ABOUT SOMETHING THAT HAD
HAPPENED AT HER HOUSE, AND THAT
SHE HAD TAKEN TOO MUCH TYLENOL
OR SOMETHING, SOME KIND OF
OVER-THE-COUNTER MEDICATION.
AND -- BUT IT WAS OKAY, BECAUSE
HER MOM -- HER MOTHER WAS THERE,
AND, YOU KNOW, IT WAS A STUPID
IDEA, BUT SHE WAS JUST DEPRESSED
AT THE TIME.
IT WASN'T, LIKE SHE WAS A
SUICIDAL PERSON.
SHE WASN'T.
>> Reporter: JAMIE DENIES THAT
HER DAUGHTER EVER TOOK A LARGE
AMOUNT OF ASPIRIN.
>> THAT NEVER HAPPENED.
I MEAN, THAT JUST UNEQUIVOCALLY
NEVER HAPPENED.
>> Reporter: STILL, THERE IS
ANOTHER THEORY OFFERED BY JEANIE
GINSBURG, GEOFF'S MOM.
IT'S NOT INCONCEIVABLE TO YOU
THAT ASHLEY WOULD HAVE TAKEN
THIS DRUG HERSELF?
>> NO, NO.
>> Reporter: SHE SAID ASHLEY HAD
A FLARE FOR THE DRAMATIC.
SHE WANTED HIM TO STAY WITH HER
THAT NIGHT IN THE ROOM.
SHE DIDN'T WANT HIM TO GO TO THE
CASINOO WITHOUT HER.
THERE WAS A DISAGREEMENT.
SO IN THIS SCENARIO, SHE WOULD
HAVE TAKEN SOME TO GET ATTENTION
FROM GEOFFREY?
>> I THINK MAYBE TO JUST SCARE
HIM A LITTLE BIT LIKE, "DON'T
LEAVE ME LIKE THAT AGAIN,"
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> Reporter: BUT THERE'S ONE
LAST POSSIBLE EXPLANATION --
GEOFF MAY HAVE SET IN MOTION
EVENTS THAT WOULD LEAD TO A
TERRIBLE ACCIDENT.
HE DOESN'T DENY HE WAS THE ONE
WHO BROUGHT THE METHADONE ON
BOARD THE SHIP.
>>HENEW I HAD TO BRING IN ON
SO I COULD GET THROUGH THE TAIL
END OF MY DETOX.
>> Reporter: HE ADMITS HE HID
THE MHADONE IN A BOTTLE OF
COLD MEDICINE LIKE NYQUIL OR
DAYQUIL, IN ORDER TO SMUGGLE IT
ON.
>> I DIDN'T HAVE A PRESCRIPTION
BOTTLE FOR IT OR ANYTHING.
>> Reporter: IN ASHLEY'S HOME
VIDEO, GEOFF SEEMS TO CELEBRATE
WHEN HE CLEARS PORT SECURITY.
>> GOT PAST THE DOGS!
( LAUGHTER )
>> Reporter: AND THERE IS ONE
MORE SMALL DETAIL IN THE STORY
THAT MAY HAVE TRIGGERED ABSOLUTE
DISASTER -- ASHLEY'S MOTHER SAYS
HER DAUGHTER WASN'T FEELING WELL
WHEN SHE LEFT AND MAY HAVE
REACHED FOR THAT BOTTLE OF COLD
MEDICATION.
>> SO IT'S HIGHLY LIKELY THAT
SHE WOULD HAVE... UH, TAKEN SOME
NYQUIL.
>> Reporter: PERHAPS NOT KNOWING
THAT THERE WAS METHADONE IN THE
NYQUIL BOTTLE.
>> DEFINITELY NOT, IF SHE KNEW
THERE WAS METHADONE IN THE
TTLE.
>> Reporter: BUT GEOFF INSISTS
ASHLEY DID KNOW.
HOW DO YOU KNOW SHE KNEW?
>> BECAUSE I WAS WITH HER, AND I
TOLD HER ABOUT IT.
I HAD -- I HAD -- I HAD PUT THE
METHADONE IN THE BOTTLE RIGHT
THERE IN FRONT OF HER.
>> Reporter: YOU THINK IT'S
POSSIBLE THAT SHE TOOK IT BY
ACCIDENT?
>> I DON'T KNOW.
>> Reporter: IF SHE TOOK IT BY
ACCIDENT THAT WOULD IMPLY SHE
DIDN'T REMEMBER THAT YOU HAD PUT
METHADONE IN THAT BOTTLE OF
DAYQUIL.
IT SEEMS PRETTY...
FAR FETCHED TO FORGET SOMETHING
LIKE THAT.
>> I DON'T KNOW.
WHAT HAPPENED.
THAT'S ONE THING THAT I'VE COME
TO, YOU KNOW, UNDERSTAND OR
ACCEPT IS THAT I'LL NEVER KNOW
WHAT HAPPENED.
>> Reporter: NOT KNOWING IS NOT
AN OPTION FOR JAMIE, SO SHE AND
HER ATTORNEY PRESS ON WITH THEIR
OWN INVESTIGATION.
THEY TRAVEL TO ENSENADA TO LEARN
WHAT THEY CAN FROM MEXICAN
AUTHORITIES.
>> WE'D LIKE TO KNOW THE RESULTS
OF THEIR INVESTIGATION, AND ARE
THEY PLANNING TO PROCEED WITH
ANY KIND OF CRIMINAL
PROSECUTION?
SORRY.
>> Reporter: IT'S JAMIE'S FOURTH
TRIP.
MEXICAN OFFICIALS SPEND SEVERAL
HOURS DISCUSSING WHAT HAPPENED
ON THE "PARADISE."
>> I KNOW THIS CASE IS STILL
OPEN, AND I KNOW THEY'RE STILL
INVESTIGATING IT.
THEY CARE.
AND THAT JUST OVERWHELMS ME.
>> Reporter: REMEMBER GEORGE
SMITH?
HE DISAPPEARED OFF A CRUISE SHIP
ON HIS MOAN HOON.
HIS MOTHER KNOWS EXACTLY WHAT
JAMIE IS GOING THROUGH.
>> AND WE EXIT WE WAIT EVERY DAY
FOR THE F.B.I. TO CALL US, BUT
THEY DON'T.
>> TONIGHT'S "48 HOURS MYSTERY"
WILL CONTINUE.
=y5=,wW
DON'T STOP
LIVING IN THE RED
WHOOOAH
OHHHHHH
DON'T STOP
LIVING IN THE...
RED
>> I WAKE UP EVERY MORNING
WISHING I COULD HOLD HER JUST
ONE MORE TIME.
AND I WAKE UP EVERY MORNING,
PRAYING THAT NO OTHER MOTHER
EVER HAS TO LIVE THIS NIGHTMARE.
>> Reporter: BUT, SADLY, ANOTHER
MOTHER IS.
>> AS TIME GOES ON, IT DOESN'T
GET BETTER.
IT GETS WORSE, BECAUSE YOU DON'T
HAVE THAT PERSON IN YOUR LIFE
ANYMORE.
>> Reporter: MAUREEN SMITH LOST
HER SON ON A CRUISE A LITTLE
MORE THAN A YEAR AGO.
GEORGE SMITH WAS ON HIS
HONEYMOON WITH HILLS NEW BRIDE,
JENNIFER HAGEL.
A FEW DAYS INTO THE CRUISE,
GEORGE DISAPPEARED.
SOMEWHERE IN THE AGEAN SEA.
A BLOOD STAIN WAS FOUND ON AN
AWNING BENEATH HIS ROOM.
THE CAPTAIN WAS QUICK TO CALL IT
AN ACCIDENT, SOMETHING MAUREEN
NEVER ACCEPTED.
>> IT'S NOT AN ACCIDENT.
MY SON WAS MURDERED.
>> Reporter: THE F.B.I. IS STILL
INVESTIGATING.
NO ONE'S BEEN CHARGED.
>> IT'S NOT KNOWING WHAT
HAPPENED THAT'S THE KILLER.
AND I KNOW THAT WAS WHAT WAS
GOING THROUGH JAMIE'S MIND.
>> Reporter: MAUREEN HEARD ABOUT
JAMIE'S CAMPAIGN FOR ANSWERS AND
REACHED OUT TO OFFER SUPPORT.
>> I'M SO SORRY FOR YOUR LOSS.
LET ME SHOW YOU MY DAUGHTER.
>> OH, SHE'S GORGEOUS.
>> THANK YOU.
>> AND YOUR SON IS SO HANDSOME.
>> Reporter: GEORGE'S STORY
ECHOES ASHLEY'S IN MANY WAY.
BOTH COUPLES SPENT TIME IN THE
SHIP'S CASINO.
THE NIGHT GEORGE DISAPPEARED,
SHE WAS THERE WITH JENNIFER, AND
THEY RAN INTO A GROUP OF YOUNG
MEN THEY MET ON THE CRUISE.
JOSH ASKIN WAS ONE OF THEM A
COLLEGE STUDENT TRAVELING WITH
HIS FAMILY.
AND HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE
MOOD THERE?
WAS EVERYBODY IN A GOOD MOOD,
BAD MOOD?
EVERYBODY WAS IA GREAT
MOOD.
>> Reporter: WHEN THE CASINO
CLOSED, JOSH SAYS THE MANAGER,
LLOYD BOTHA, SUGGESTED THEY HEAD
UP TO THE DISCO, SO THEY ALL
PILED INTO THE ELEVATOR
TOGETHER.
>> LLOYD, THE CASINO MANAGER,
PUT HIS ARM AROUND JENNIFER, AND
WE THOUGHT A LITTLE AWKWARD
MOMENT.
>> Reporter: SO YOU REMEMBER IT
AS BEING AWKWARD.
>> UH-HUH.
>> Reporter: WAS GEORGE AWARE OF
THIS?
DID HE HAVE ANY REACTIO
>> I DON'TNOW WHAT HE WAS
THINKING AT THAT TIME.
>> Reporter: LATER AT THE CLUB,
WITNESSES SAID GEORGE AND
JENNIFER AUED AND THAT SHE
LEFTWITHOUT HIM.
A SHORT TIME LATER JOSH AND HIS
BUDDIE WALKED A VERY DRUNK
GEORGE BACK TO HIS CABIN.
WHEN YOU GOT TO HIS ROOM, WHAT
HAPPENED?
>> WE OI NOTICED HIS WIFE WASN'T
THERE.
>> Reporter: DID ANYONE THINK
THAT WAS UNUSUAL?
YEAH.
HE WAS ON HIS HONEYMOON.
HIS WIFE WASN'T THERE.
THAT'S ODD TO ME.
>> Reporter: THEY WENT OUT FOR A
QUICK LOOK AROUND AND DIDN'T
FIND HER.
JOSH SAYS THEY RETURNED GEORGE
TO HIS ROOM.
>> ITAS GETTING LATE.
I WAS REALLY HUNRY, WE JUST KIND
OF SAID, "GOOD NIGHT, MAN."
HE SAID, "THANK YOU, THANK YOU,"
AND WE JUST LEFT.
>> Reporter: BUT THERE'SORE TO
THE STORY.
>> MY WIFE AND I WERE AWAKENED
BY YELLING COMING FROM THE SMITH
CABIN.
>> Reporter: CLETE HYMAN IN THE
ROOM NEXT DOOR SAYS HE HEARD
STRANGE SOUNDS COMING FROM THE
SMITH CABIN AT 4:00 A.M..
>> SUDDENLY THERE WAS AN
ARGUMENT OUT ON THE SMITH
BALCONY.
>> Reporter: AFTER A COUPLE OF
MINUTES, HYMAN SAYS HE HEARD
SOMEONE SAY GOOD NIGHT.
THEN...
>> I LOOKED OUT AND SAW THREE
MALE INDIVIDUALS WALKING AWAY
FROM THE ROOM.
>> Reporter: NEXT, HE HEARD WHAT
SOUNDED LIKE FURNITURE BEING
MOVED, FOLLOWED BY SILENCE.
>> AFTER ABOUT TWO MINUTES OF
TOTAL SILENCE, HOWEVER, THERE
WAS A LARGE -- WHAT I WOULD CALL
A HORRIFIC THUD.
>> Reporter: THE THUD IS
BELIEVED TO BE THE SOUND OF
GEORGE HITTING THE AWNING.
AT ALMOST THAT SAME MENT, A
CREWMEMBER FOUND JENNIFER ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF THE SHIP, PASSED
OUT IN A HALLWAY.
INVESTIGATORS LATER FOUND TRACES
OF BLOOD IN THE SMITH CABIN.
>> WE WANT TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENED
TO OUR SON ON THAT CRUISE SHIP.
>> EXACTLY.
>> AND WE'RE GOING TO FIGHT AND
WE'RE GOING TO FIGHT UNTIL WE
FIND OUT.
>> Reporter: LIKE JAMIE, ANSWERS
FOR THE SMITHS HAVE BEEN TOUGH
TO COME BY.
THE F.B.I. WON'T TALK ABOUT THE
INVESTIGATION, AND THE PERSON
THEY COUNTED ON THE MOST,
JENNIFER, SAYS SHE HAS VIRTUALLY
NO MEMORY OF WHAT HAPPENED THAT
NIGHT.
>> NOT ONLY DO YOU LOSE YOUR
MEMORY, BUT TO HAVE NOBODY
BELIEVE YOU, I DON'T KNOW WHAT
HAPPENED.
>> HER LAWYER BACKED UP HER
STORY.
>> SHE HAS BEEN GIVEN A
POLYGRAPH TEST, AND SHE PASSED
THAT TEST WITH FLYING COLORS.
>> Reporter: AT FIRST, THE
SMITHS WERE SUPPORTIVE, BUT AS
TIME PASSED, THEY GREW FURTHER
APART.
>> WE WERE FRUSTRATED BY THE
LACK OF INFORMATION COMING FROM
JENNIFER.
>> Reporter: GEORGE'S SISTER,
BREE, AND HER FAMILY, STILL
HOPED TO JOIN FORCES WITH
JENNIFER WHEN SHE FILED HER
WRONGFUL DEATH SUIT AGAINST
ROYAL CARIBBEAN.
THAT, AND THAT ALONE, THEY SAID,
WOULD FINALLY YIELD ANSWERS.
BUT JUST DAYS BEFORE FILING....
>> BREAKING NEWS IN THE
SO-CALLED MISSING GROOM CASE.
WE LEARN OF A PROPOSED
SETTLEMENT REACHED BY THE BRIDE.
>> Reporter: JENNIFER REACHED A
SETTLEMENT ON HER OWN WITH ROYAL
CARIBBEAN IN ADDITION TO AN
UNDISCLOSED AMOUNT OF MONEY, THE
CRUISE LINE AGREED TO GIVE
JENNIFER ACCESS TO THEIR
INFORMATION ON THE CASE.
SOMETHING SHE HOPED WOULD BRING
SOME CLOSURE TO BOTH FAMILIES.
IT DIDN'T.
>> JENNIFER WENT BEHIND MY BACK
WITHOUT MY PARENTS' KNOWLEDGE
AND HAS PPOSED A SETTLEMT
WITH ROYAL CARIBBEAN THAT WE DID
NOT EVEN KNOW ABOUT.
>> Reporter: THE SMITHS SAY
JENNIFER SETTLED BECAUSE SHE
DOESN'T WANT TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
UNDER OATH ABOUT HER THAKZ
NIGHT.
THEY DON'T BELIEVE SHE HAD
ANYTHING TO DO WITH GEORGE'S
DEATH, BUT THEY DO BELIEVE SHE
KNOWS MORE THAN SHE'S TELLING.
>> SHE IS HIDING SOMETHING.
SHE H ANSWERS, AND MY SON
LOVED HER.
SHE BETRAYED HIM.
>> SHE BETRAYED HIM AND SHE
BETRAYED US.
>> Reporter: JENNIFER REFUSED
OUR REQUEST FOR AN ON-CAMERA
INTERVIEW BUT TOLD48 HOURS"
SHE AND HER FAMILY WERE DEEPLY
HURT BY THE SMITH ACCUSATIONS,
THAT SHE HAS FULLY COOPERATED
WITH THE F.B.I. AND HAS NOTHING
TO HIDE.
SHORT OF TURNING BACK THE HANDS
OF TIME, SHE SAYS, THERE MAY BE
NOTHING I CAN DO THAT WILL
SATISFY GEORGE'S FAMILY.
THE SMITHS, MEANWHILE, HAVE
FILED THEIR OWN SUIT AGAINST
ROYAL CARIBBEAN AND HAVE VOUD TO
CONTINUE THEIR FIGHT.
>> WHEN WE GET ANSWERS F OUR
SON, WE CAN LAY HIS SOUL TO REST
BOUGHT RIGHT NOW, WE CAN'T DO
THAT.
AND I'M GOING TO KEEP GOING TILL
I CAN DO THAT FOR MY SON.
>> I KNOW WHAT YOU MEAN.
>> THAT'S WHAT I OWE HIM.
>> Reporter: JAMIE BARGET FEELS
SHE OWES HER DAUGHTER, ASHLEY,
THE SAME THING.
>> I HAD A DREAM A COUPLE OF
MONTHS AGO, AND ASHLEY APPEARED
ME IN THE DREAM.
AND I SAID, "ARBLY, COME HOME."
AND SHE SAID, "MOM, I CAN'T COME
HOME."
I FELT LIKE SHE WAS TELLING ME,
"YOU'VE GOT THINGS THAT YOU HAVE
TO TAKE CARE OF BECAUSE I CAN'T
REST UNTIL YOU DO."
uzk
S.
>> Reporter: ON OCTOBER 15, IT
WILL BE ONE YEAR SINCE THE DEATH
OF ASHLEY BARNETT.
DO YOU FEEL RESPONSIBLE FOR HER
DEATH?
>> I DON'T FEEL RESPONSIBLE FOR
HER DEATH.
>> Reporter: YOU'RE THE ONE WHO
BROUGHT THE METHADONE ON BOARD.
>> I KNOW.
I JUST...
IT'S SOMETHING THAT, YOU KNOW, I
JUST HAVE TO LIVE WITH, AND I'M
TRYING TO DO THAT NOW WHERE I'M
AT AND, YOU KNOW....
>> Reporter: HER BOYFRIEND,
GEOFF GINSBURG, SAYS HE HAS NOT
WITHHELD ANYTHING ABOUT THAT
FATEFUL WEEKEND.
>> I HAVE TOLD EVERYBODY THE
STORY.
I HAVEN'T LIED.
I HAVE BEEN HONEST ABOUT IT FROM
DAY ONE, AND I HAVE TOLD A LOT
OF PEOPLE IT.
A LOT OF PEOPLE THIS STORY, AND
EVERYTHING THAT I'VE TOLD THEM
IS EXACTLY WHAT I KNOW.
THAT'S IT.
I HAVEN'T HID ANYTHING.
>> Reporter: IN A STORY FILLED
WITH SO MANY QUESTIONS, THERE IS
ONE MORE PART OF THE MYSTERY
THAT HAUNTS BOTH GEOFF AND JAMIE
REMEMBER, WHEN THE DOCTOR AND
NURSE ARRIVED AT THE CABIN, THEY
TOLD CARNIVAL ASHLEY WAS
UNRESPONSIVE, COLD TO THE TOUCH.
WAS SHE ALIVE WHEN YOU CALLED
FOR HELP?
>> SHE WAS WARM WHEN WE WERE
DOING C.P.R., SHE WAS STILL
WARM.
SHE WASN'T COLD.
YOU KNOW, HER LIPS WEREN'T BLUE.
>> Reporter: AND AFTER REFUGEE A
911 CALL THAT A PASSENGER WASN'T
BREATHING, GEOFF AND JAMIE
BELIEVE THA CARNIVAL SHOULD
HAVE BROUGHT MORE RESCUE
EQUIPMENT WHEN THEY INITIALLY
RESPONDED, SPECIFICALLY, A
DEVICE TO SHOCK ASHLEY'S HEART.
>> EVERYTHING YOU CAN DO WAS NOT
DONE.
>> Reporter: YOU'RE SAYING IT
WASN'T DONE IN A TIMELY FASHION
OR JUST WASN'T DONE?
>> IN A TIMELY FASHION.
>> Reporter: CARNIVAL INSISTS
THEY RESPONDED RAPIDLY AND
APPROPRIATELY.
ADDITIONAL RESCUE EQUIPMENT
WOULD NOT HAVE MADE A DIFFERENCE
THEY SAY, BECAUSE ASHLEY HAD
ALREADY DIED BEFORE MEDICAL
ASSISTANCE WAS REQUESTED.
GEOFF IS NOW IN A PROFESSIONAL
TREATMENT PROGRAM FOR HIS
ADDICTION.
SADLY, THE PERSON WHO THOUGHT
SHE COULD SAVE H WILL NOT BE
AROUND TO SEE THAT.
>> SHE'S IN MY HEART AND MIND
EVERY DAY, ALL DAY LONG.
THERE'S NOT A MINUTE THAT GOES
BY THAT I DON'T THINK ABOUT HER.
YOU KNOW.
I MEAN, I THINK ABOUT HER ALL
DAY LONG.
AND I WISH SHE WASN'T -- I WISH
SHE WAS HERE, YOU KNOW, WITH ME.
BUT THERE'S NOT A MINUTE THAT
GOES BY THAT I DON'T THINK ABOUT
HER, YOU KNOW.
>> Reporter: ALL THE PIECES
STILL DON'T FIT TOGETHER, DO
THEY?
>> NO, THEY DON'T.
I DON'T KNOW IF I CAN BEAR
FOREVER NOT FITTING THOSE PIECES
TOGETHER.
.
>> I DO GO TO THE CEMETERY AND I
SIT WITH HER AND I TALK TO HER,
AND I FILL HER IN ON MY WEEK.
I FEEL KIND OF LIKE I'M BACK
WITH HER IN A WAY, SO... I JUST
-- I'M KEEPING THE TRADITION
ALIVE.
>> Reporter: IN PLACE OF THE BIG
DREAMS ASHLEY
TT ONCE HAD,